---
layout: post
title: Demystifying the Radiology Report
subtitle: 5C Network 
date: 2017-05-09 
bigimg: /img/demystifying.jpg
---
The reports generated by the radiologist are very difficult to understand, especially if the person is not from a medical background. The radiology reports are mainly a written communication between the radiologists interpreted image studying and the other medical professionals who request the examination.

Nowadays most of the patients have access to their reports, going through our own medical report and understand them gives us satisfaction and respectful feeling. But radiology reports are written as if they’ll only ever be read by someone with a medical background

Hence we got tactics to demystify those reports instead of focusing on reading and understanding every unclear medical term. A good report is not only about accurate content, but it is also concise, clear and pertinent. Hence most of the radiologists follow or comfortable with certain sort of reporting format comprises of certain points like below which is easily readable by the clinician:

* Type of exam 
* Clinical history
* Comparison
* Technique
* Finding
* Impression

Once we understand those points then it gives us a broad view of how exactly our report looks like and what all content will be there inside. This whole article will help to gives us a small satisfaction for understanding the report.

**Type of exam**

In this section, they will talk about when and what sort of imaging study was performed. E.g. image studying can be computed tomography scan (CT scan), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Ultrasound, X-Ray, etc.

**Clinical history**

This section mainly contains all your personal details and past medical history.
Personal details like age, weight, height, gender, etc.
The past medical history plays a very crucial role as many time radiologists take that as a reference and good exact medical history can help a lot to study image more accurately.

**Comparison**
As the name itself suggests, the radiologist is comparing the current patient’s medical images with any of his/her previous case of the same region.  

**Technique**

This section is not important to understand or read being a patient as here just for the future reference for radiologists they will note down how they performed the study of the images. So you can usually skip this section without worrying too much about it

**Findings**

This section is pretty interesting, here the radiologist will discuss the various parts of the images. Observing and reading the images to determine whether it is normal or abnormal. Id abnormal then they should explain what exactly is abnormal. 

**Impression**

This is the final section where everything is summarized, the combined result of findings, medical history, and other factors. It is considered to be the most critical piece of the radiology report. Usually, the clinicians directly move to this section to get an overall view and treatment planning. If in complicated cases, the radiologist might offer different diagnosis or additional images. So, when you read your report, go ahead and read the impression first and then try to go through the rest of the report.

The advantages to patients understanding their own radiology reports are it empowers patients to ask the right questions when they meet with their referring physicians.

After the briefing, you might be thinking that “yes, this sounds easy”. We may not be able to assure you that you will understand all those medical jargon but you will be in the condition to relate it to your own body. If we don’t understand anything but at least we can ask some questions to the doctor as we have some prior knowledge of the reporting.   

## GOOD Luck!
