---
layout: post
title: My time at 5C
subtitle: Kavya P V (Intern)
date: 2018-08-19
bigimg: /img/demystifying.jpg
---

It all started off with me looking for an opportunity to intern for a month or two. Fortunately, I could get the opportunity to work with this amazing bunch of people who never fail to inspire you or make you smile.


Little did I know that I would get to learn so much in a matter of three months, and that too about an incredible and impactful field like Radiology. Each day was a new learning experience. I would look up to each day like if it were a new beginning. There was never a day when I wasn’t excited to come to the office. 
Everything seems so easy when you get to work at 5C! The constant support from each of them is what kept me going. Doing a wide range of different tasks was challenging. My wonderful team at 5C helped me with every step of my journey - From writing blogs, campaign management, handling the Twitter account to cold-calling, all of it seemed exciting. I was give freedom to do my work and I was answerable. It was a real fasttrack experience in professionalism!
Cold-calling is a bit of a tedious job that requires a lot of patience, but none of it seemed to affect me thanks to the constant support from the people here at 5C.
5C is one amazing team to work with, especially if it is your first job. There is always someone to help you with when you get stuck up with your work. More than anything, it boosted up my confidence.
The 5C team is the best support system that you could get. 


It is such a fun loving environment here at 5C! No matter how tough the situation is, they never fail to have a smile on their faces. It is their constant support and encouragement that made it possible for me to do the kind of work that I did. Not to mention, 5C is a powerhouse of knowledge. 
Each of them have an immense amount of knowledge and energy, not to mention passion. 5C is online 24x7 - the dedication to client satisfaction is really amazing!


My time here as a communication intern has come to an end which sure is unforgettable! There is a lot to take away from this internship. 
Hoping we cross our paths again in the near future!
